When a person makes a sacrifice,
they give up something
for something that they consider
is of higher value.
What kind of a price tag can you put
on your child’s love for Jehovah?
on serving Jehovah whole-souled as a family?
When I found out
that we were going to have a family,
it was overwhelming for me.
When you come into the truth—
We weren’t Witnesses when I was a child.
Sometimes you’re exposed to things
that leave you with baggage,
leave you unsure of yourself.
You need constant reassurance
that you’re going to be OK,
that you can take care
of any situation that comes along.
My dad—he gave me all I needed.
He loved me so much.
I would take my mother’s knitting yarn,
and I would tie it to his door handle
after he went to sleep.
And I would run it
across the hall to my bedroom
and tie it to my big toe
so that when he opened
his door in the morning,
I would wake up
and I could be with him.
That love that I had for my dad
—I wanted them to love Jehovah that much.
I wanted a string tied
around their hearts right to Jehovah
so that he was the one motivating them
and he was the one
waking them up spiritually every day.
I loved to teach the children things,
and I would do it at any available moment.
And then, of course,
at night, as a family
(usually on our bed),
we would read our Bible together.
It was the glue that kept us tied to Jehovah
and kept us tied to each other.
In Judges 7, Gideon said:
“Watch me and do . . . what I do.”
So I knew that if we wanted
the children to live the truth,
we had to live it with them.
It couldn’t be something
that we just taught them.
We had to live our life of service
to Jehovah with them.
Jesus said that obviously
we ‘can’t slave for two masters.’
And I’ve tried to do that and, believe me,
it does not work.
Like any father,
I wanted to have a home for my family.
My profession was building houses,
but that cost me my pioneering.
And so I decided
I had to quit building houses.
So I did.
I started to do remodel jobs.
And we looked for a place
that we could afford
that would sustain us
in the full-time service,
and Jehovah provided
exactly what we needed.
One of the highlights of raising the children
was the annual visits
to unassigned territory.
The success in the ministry was phenomenal.
So we decided as a family
to take on the challenge of learning Spanish.
We had a large Spanish-speaking population
in our territory
and in the surrounding territories,
and there was no group
or congregation to help them.
When we would go out
of the country to preach, we would often stay
with family members of our Bible students
or our brothers and sisters
in these countries,
in some very humble surroundings,
and we took advantage
of the hospitality that they offered us
because we wanted
to live the culture with them.
It just opened our eyes to a world
that we never knew existed.
Our family was able to progress
and flourish spiritually
because of a concentrated effort
by Joren and me.
She’s been there
to fill in all of the cracks.
He always made it so easy to love him,
to love the children,
and to really focus on spiritual things.
When we pray to Jehovah,
thinking about our family
being able to serve him like this,
we just say thank you.
We just try in some way
to express how deeply we feel
about this privilege that we have
to be with Kaarsten and Kjersti
and Andrea and Dhimo.
We don’t deserve
any of these blessings from Jehovah,
but somehow he’s blessed our efforts,
and he’s given us an opportunity to smile
and reflect on all of the things
that he’s done for us.
And what can we do to repay Jehovah
but just keep going, keep trying,
and keep moving forward
until we’re on the other side?